Pushing this button. Broadcasting from the beautiful Hill Country in Texas, this is Juan,
RadioNetwork.com. Well, well, very pleasant good morning to you. Welcome to part two of
our little show today on the third Monday of the month. We have the pleasure of following
Dr. Massey is having Dr. Ray Peat on. He's a kind of a legend in nutrition, PhD, biology,
University of Oregon, specializing in physiology. He taught schools all around. He was in Mexico
for a long time. He started his work with progesterone and related hormones in 1968.
Wow, that's a year I started radio, 1968. Dr. Ray Peat was doing hormones and I was
playing Frank Sinatra records. 1978, Dr. Peat, you and I have been around a little bit. Good
morning.
Dr. Peat Yeah.
Dr. Massey Nice to have you here. How are you?
Dr. Peat Just about the time I finished my dissertation
related to estrogen metabolism, the news was that there was a tremendous pituitary tumor
after the development of tumors with excess production of prolactin.
Dr. Massey Yeah, you heard us talking about prolactin.
Dr. Peat Yeah. For several years, surgery was the only thing. I think it was a 300-fold
increase in prolactin surgeries in just a few years. It turned out to be the onset of
the birth control pill that was causing this terrible epidemic of surgery for the pituitary.
After several years, probably a little over 10 years before doctors really would consider
using a drug such as bromocriptine to change the pituitary system, the pituitary system
changed the hormones away from the estrogen prolactin effect, so it became a more manageable
problem when they realized a fairly safe drug could do it.
That was sort of all there was to it. It was swept under the rug and it had been a purely
atherogenic problem because of the massive use of estrogen treatments for menopause and
birth control. But then the doctors realized that it was a very, very, very, very, very
dangerous drug. The background of the problem started being discussed. People working in
the salmon industry realized that the natural physiology of salmon and other different species
of fish involved some radical changes in prolactin. The shift from high salt intake
in the ocean to a very low salt intake, high water intake, turned on the prolactin, which
is a water regulator helping to get rid of excess water. The essence of estrogen poisoning
is that it causes excess retention and poisoning by water. So the salmon effect on prolactin
is also the estrogen effect. The fish coming in from the ocean is not only
edible for good tasting, safe fish, they're very deteriorated. The flesh becomes mushy
and unpleasant. What is happening is if you look at the progress of the salmon going up
the river as the meat deteriorates, the salmon is preparing to oscillate and die. The fish
is preparing to oscillate and die. The process of oscillating is part of the process of keeping
adapted to excess of bone water. The process that keeps the fish alive is the process of
destroying the bones. The process that keeps the fish from dying is the process of destroying
the bones. The process that keeps the fish from dying is the process of destroying the
bones. The process that keeps the fish from dying is the process of destroying the bones.
This involves the parathyroid hormones as well as the whole estrogen reproductive system.
The effect is to cause kyphosis which is the bending of the spine. The salmon doesn't have
to hold itself in an erect posture the way old people do, but they call it kyphosis,
whether it's either in salmon or in old women. The upper part of the spine turns sharply
forward. In the case of women, they talk about it as if it's gravity pulling you forward
causing your spine to bend into a hook shape as you form osteoporosis.
But in salmon, the salmon floats at both ends, so there's nothing causing gravity. It's nothing
but the destruction of the skeleton, the parathyroid hormone, the loss of calcium and fat, and
of course the water regulating minerals. The sudden onset of death and the prolactinoma
petrified the whole aging syndrome in salmon exactly causes the prolactinoma
petrified the whole aging syndrome in salmon exactly corresponds to the aging effect associated
with estrogen and osteoporosis.
So the high omega-3s in salmon, is that tied in with the early aging process or fatty liver
and stuff with humans?
Yeah, exactly.
Which is why you don't want to eat salmon every day or anything.
Do you?
You don't want to eat salmon every day then.
I stopped eating it altogether when I learned about the high PUFA content and the association
with high estrogen prolactinoma.
I've been reading, coming across this fellow Ansel Keys from time to time the last month,
I don't know why, it's just been kind of one of those things. Who was this guy and did
he put out a lot of misinformation, Ansel Keys, do you know of him? What was his story?
He seemed to be an honest but misinformed biologist.
So he was honest, you think, but misinformed biologist.
Yeah, he was just inclined in the wrong direction by propaganda, which practically everyone
is in biology.
A project of mine for the last few weeks has been in doing my searches, I in effect ask
people alternate forms of the different questions, but with the seemingly innocent intent of
finding out what people believe is the cause of aging and which things cause better oxidation
and which things cause worse oxidation.
I found that if the PubMed was an individual, but I've also done it with individuals to
in effect lead the PubMed or the person to the right answer.
Lead them to say something that seems obvious and intuitive to them, but if I innocently
seem to change the way I ask a question, what is the factor that causes the aging, you can
lead people very easily, even if it seems to be the objective database.
You can lead PubMed responses to be predominantly incriminating fat in aging or predominantly
incriminating sugars and carbohydrates in aging.
Wow, it just depends where the motives or the preconceived notion of the person doing
this.
Yeah, I did the same thing for the oxidation in general as well as for aging.
You can lead what seems to be the objective result of looking at hundreds and hundreds
of responses when you get a very hyper person shifting your responses.
What is the cause of age, oxidation, deterioration?
You can say it's caused by fat or by carbohydrates.
It all comes right up to the same database.
If you look at it without suspicion, just because you're a scientist, you can't tell
because you innocently were focused for some reason on fat eating or sugar eating.
It can lead you innocently to an 180 degree direction of error.
So it's talked about that he was actually working for some sugar companies at one point
and was trying to make the case that sugar was okay?
When was he, back in the '70s and '80s?
There has been a change in the time drift of answers.
So when you see the change over time, it's gotten more from blaming things on sugars
to more blaming them on oxidation.
That can give you the opinion that it's objective and historical.
When I looked at just the issue of immunity, what are the things that cause immune system
failure or activation?
The same thing happened in the 1990s with a series of absolute looking articles, especially
the Science magazine, the very top prestige magazines, were blaming it on sugar.
They were blaming immunological changes in insulin and roundworms had been identified
as causing aging by mutating the quality of their diabetes molecules.
They were producing too much, too active insulin.
So insulin, back in 1998 to 2000, the great stress was suddenly discovering that high
insulin or high glucose would cause rapid aging, premature death.
But then, just in 20 years, the different way of asking questions is diabetes the cause
or is it preventing?
It turns out that the failure of good glucose function, good insulin response, is the preferred
apparently objective answer.
But most of these different studies, if you talk about carbs and fat or meat or whatever,
most of them are all, I don't know what the term is Dr. Peat, they're just asking questions
of people and they fill out forms mostly.
They can be other than totally accurate, correct?
They're just asking questions.
The culture, the simple advertising publications in medical journals and television, huge influence
of television on what to expect from the pituitary tumors, the liver, the heart, the lungs, the
pituitary tumors or carbohydrate or not enough insulin or too much insulin.
We were talking about it earlier because I've been playing around with my diet.
In general, is it overall better, medium, or does it matter of your fasting blood sugar
being lower?
Is that preferable to be 60 rather than 90?
Your insulin is working and providing ATP for your cells.
The drift of thinking now is very well-objective.
It's well-objectively supported to show that it's the ATP provided to the tissues that
prevents aging.
ATP to the tissues.
And what provides ATP more directly to the tissues than glucose?
And so glucose, ATP, anti-aging is now very clearly a matter of simple availability of
energy.
Energy has always been the life factor and that has slipped by people.
And how does that relate to insulin and blood sugar levels?
When you're failing to make good insulin or you're producing or eating too much fat, so
the fat is blocking your insulin, then you have accelerated aging.
So it can be genetic distortion of the insulin or it can be just too much fat in the diet,
called causing insulin resistance.
Insulin is resisting because?
Your insulin is resisting getting into the cells?
Yeah, they each are blocking the ability of the cell to oxidize glucose directly to get
at the ATP.
Got it.
Here's an email for you.
Does PUFA inhibit thyroid hormone because the body actually wants to lower the body
temperature to help prevent the PUFA from becoming oxidized or rancid?
Or is it more directly inhibiting thyroid hormone?
Layers and layers. So what's PUFA doing?
Well, it's activating estrogen effects, serotonin effects, lowering body temperature, interfering
with thyroid function.
All of the above?
And more, all the different enzymes you could involve.
So that's just many reasons why they're just not good for us, right? Many reasons.
Can Dr. Peat explain what natural remedies can dissolve or remove?
I'll spell this for you, Doc.
ARCUSCENILIS, which is a thick, bluish white ring that can develop around the iris that
are often called cholesterol rings or calcium rings.
In iridology, why would these rings develop in the eyes of people who are in their 20s?
Cholesterol rings, do you know from those?
Who was saying that?
This person evidently has these rings, the ARCUSCENILIS, and they're bluish white rings
that developed around the iris. Are you familiar with those?
That involves calcification.
Calcification.
As well as fat, and not just pure cholesterol.
In tissues like that, the cholesterol is partly a protective attempt to defend the system.
In the blood vessels, it's very clear that the first reactions of the cholesterol are
to combine with the toxic effect of the PUFA that's already taking effect.
When it fails to be sufficiently antitoxic, then it gets the blame.
But really, it's the age pigment development of the lipoflavin-accumulated PUFA that causes
the problem.
And in the brain, the senile brain has much more total cholesterol than the healthy young
brain.
In the situation very close to the senile artery, the detoxifying effect of the insulin,
the binding of cholesterol to the age pigment, as that fails, you get more cholesterol in
the blood vessels.
As it fails to protect your brain, your brain gets close to twice as much accumulated total
progesterone as the non-senile young brain.
But the amount of free, protective, interactive insulin, which is in the process of removing
the toxic pigment as the senile brain loads up on more total cholesterol, the amount of
functional free cholesterol decreases radically.
So a senile brain full of cholesterol is really a way of talking about a brain whose detoxifying
system has failed tremendously to the point that it has accumulated undermining quantities
of polyunsaturated fat, and in the process has knocked out the protective function of
the cholesterol.
Dr. Daniel J. Greenberg, MD, PhD
Life Extension promotes the drug metformin as an anti-aging drug with many health benefits.
What is your opinion of their recommendation?
Metformin is possibly doing something good by blocking apparently good functions.
But the basic mechanism is blocking what you would
think is a protective progesterone use, but still the effect is to protect against PUFA
just as much as against cholesterol.
So that's the anti-aging potential benefits protecting against PUFA?
Yeah, by wasting cholesterol it seems to also take down cholesterol.
I see.
And we don't necessarily need to do that or want to take down cholesterol, do we?
No, but everything about metformin seems sort of surprising and perverse because it's one
of the original anti-diabetic drugs that always impaired the mitochondria and ended up increasing
lactic acid and killing people more than protecting them.
So they found one of these diabetes drugs that turned out not to be more deadly than
the disease.
So the average benefit seems to be good.
Here's from Robert.
If fasting or a low-carb diet is not good for our health, how is it possible that many
people who practice low-carb diets and fasting lived maybe to a very old age in good health?
For example, Dr. Wolfgang Lutz, who lived to 97 in very good health on a low-carb diet.
I think the thing to pay most attention to are the statistical effects, how often it
is beneficial for many people a low-carb diet leads to depressed metabolism.
Lower thyroid function.
I see.
Here's an email for you, Dr. Peat.
This person has been diagnosed with carcinomic liver cancer and she's doing everything
she knows how to help it.
Do you have any suggestions for helping cells that seem to be growing this mass beyond its
borders?
She says, "I have constant diarrhea, so nourishment leaves quickly without becoming
absorbed.
Apparently, it's a side effect of the carcinoma.
Nothing I've tried has curbed the diarrhea except for some natural supplements that then
cause constipation.
I have Progest-E and take it often during the day.
I will buy more and take as much as you think I need."
So, would this be a good thing for her to be taking Progest-E with this carcinoma going
on and how much?
And do you have some ideas about the carcinomic liver cancer?
The effects, I think it should be a matter of symptom relief.
Everything else being similar, if you can control the diarrhea and constipation, the
total effects of this progesterone is going to be anti-inflammatory and anti-carcinogenic.
The overall effect is causing diarrhea or constipation.
What are some other things she could do for this liver cancer?
Any ideas?
Oh, have you heard about the several studies in China in which they were using, well, two
different drugs, but ciprohepsidine.
Oh, ciprohepsidine, I know that one.
Yeah, in just two or three weeks they caused an end to metastatic liver cancer.
Really, ciprohepidine.
Didn't you tell me about that years ago?
I think I even have some for histamine.
Is that the same thing?
The lower histamine levels?
Both anti-histamines and anti-serotonin.
Wow.
The drugs are protective against cancer in general, but just two or three or four weeks
and metastatic, several cases were cleared up right away.
No kidding.
Wow, that's interesting.
They're doing that mainly in the Orient, using that in the Orient?
Yeah.
And some other surprising systemic results come from using other anti-inflammatories,
such as local anesthetics, lidocaine for example.
So it's an inflammatory thing, this cancer?
Yeah.
Hi, Patrick and Dr. Peat.
I have psoriasis on the nape of my neck and started applying some Progest-Ease to it,
which has helped tremendously.
Wow.
63 in age.
Is there anything else I can do?
I have a friend who's had breast cancer, surgery on the lump, and then radiation,
which he finished, could she use Progest-Ease as well?
I think Progesterone is the most basic anti-cancer agent for Progesterone-related cancers.
And originally, everyone wanted to find the Progesterone receptor, what is really causing
the action of Progesterone.
But they couldn't find that in most tissues, or they couldn't identify what it might really
be doing.
But they stopped assuming there should be specific Progesterone receptors for every
function because empirically, they saw that Progesterone had general functions that always
seemed to be in the same line, always protective, always anti-inflammatory.
And finally, it occurred to someone, maybe they're looking for the wrong thing in the
case of Progesterone, how can it have two or three different receptors supposedly having
different actions if they're all going to act in the same direction?
And so when they stopped looking for a specific pair of actions that never showed up, they
saw that there was a generalized action.
Without exception, cells became responsive to Progesterone.
So they had been creating an illusion that there was this mysterious, why did both kinds
of Progesterone have similar functions, and it turns out that when you look for it, it's
the mitochondrial melanin-sensitive so-called Progesterone receptor, but it's really the
energy producing property of the mitochondrial substance, the mitochondrial Progesterone
receptor is in effect the mitochondrion function itself.
Okay, fair enough.
Dr. Peat, stay right there.
We're going to do a couple of commercials and we'll be right back.
We talk about products here.
We support ourselves financially on One Radio Network.
We have a wonderful line of products that we've been, you know, some of these products,
we've known these people for, I don't know, 13, 14 years, Daniel Italis and some of the
other things, the sulfur and some of the other people.
If you are looking for some things to help you stay happy and snappy and stick around
a long time without going to the hospital, which is what we try to help you do around
here, is go to our website.
It is oneradionetwork.com.
You go in the store, look on the front page, and you'll see all the different people that
we promote.
We think it's a great lineup of folks.
We know it is.
We use everything ourselves, taking all these things, continue to take most everything all
the time, the saunas and the sulfur and the perlcium and blue shield and everything.
We just use them all and we think you'll like it.
We think you'll like these products.
They're all very well done and not just, you know, I don't think you're going to be wasting
it.
I know you'll be happy.
You're not going to waste your money on any of the things that we promote.
We wouldn't be promoting them, continuing for this many years if people weren't having
a good experience with them.
Here's a little thing on the sulfur.
We like the sulfur.
I put it in my water every day.
I use a tablespoon twice a day.
I think it's a very nice product to take, something that you can take every day without
getting messed up, which is unusual.
Here's a little bit on that.
Dr. Patrick Flanagan has been regarded as one of the most important scientists in the
last 50 years.
We talked to him about sulfur.
There's a product called organic sulfur and organic sulfur was put into trade in 1865
as organic sulfur.
Some people call it MSM or methyl sulfonylmethane, but most of the MSM in health food stores
have been contaminated with a kind of silica that prevents its absorption by the body.
But anyway, what happens is that if you take a tablespoon of MSM and the organic sulfur
in hot water in the morning and a tablespoon in the afternoon, it sulfates 192 different
compounds, heavy metals from the periodic table.
And once it sulfates them, I'm talking about radioactive elements and other things, once
it sulfates them, these sulfates cannot stay in the human body for more than 12 hours.
And what Dr. Flanagan just mentioned is one of the key reasons why our sulfur is different
from most out there, Amazon, no matter where you go, because it's pure.
Click and order, front page, oneradionetwork.com.
Would you like a discount?
Just email me, four pounds or more.
A discount, Patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
Otherwise two pound orders, United States, Canada, worldwide, three prices.
Click and order, oneradionetwork.com.
That's pretty cool, huh?
Think about all the things that get sulfated and then they move out of the body.
I've had a good experience with it forever and I'm very blessed with good health, so
knock on wood.
So I think you'll like it.
It's very affordable.
It's pure.
It works.
I think it's worth taking every day.
Just keep on doing it, baby.
And we have a good one.
No additives here, excipients or anything like that.
Pure organic sulfur from oneradionetwork.com.
And if you'd like to grow big and strong, here's a good thing to try.
Have you ever wondered why elk velvet antler could be good for you?
So every year they shed it and then in the spring they begin growing a new rack in these
set of antlers.
For three months they grow it.
Three months?
Think about the biggest moose rack you've ever seen, the biggest elk rack or deer rack
you've ever seen.
That's three months of growth.
That's amazing.
So what you have is this organ that starts off as nothing and grows within three months
to be an organ that's covered in skin, hair, veins, arteries, nerves.
It's totally innervated.
It's got bone and osteous tissue and bone marrow.
It's essentially a limb.
It requires special molecules like growth factors to accelerate the growth of it.
And so there's growth factors in there that grow all the types of tissue that are found
on it.
Bone, bone marrow, nerves, skin, blood.
All of that is being grown by these growth factors.
And you can put that into your own blood and help yourself regenerate tissue.
Well, that's why we use it around here.
You can click and order Elk Velvet Antler from Daniel Bytalis Sir Thrivill and he's
Sir Thrivill Link right here on OneRadioNetwork.com.
And he's Sir Thrivill Link.
That's our fave.
If you'd like to learn more about the really systemic benefits of getting your own little
infrared sauna in your home, you can go to OneRadio Network, click on the sauna, the
little ad on the sauna, and see a video with Dr. Rhonda Patrick.
And she's really an infrared sauna monster.
She loves them.
But she's looked deeply into some of the benefits and some of the other docs we've
had on, talked about them as well, of the heart and the whole thing going on with the
heart and saunas and the benefits, the whole system.
Really cool.
And it turns out, according to Dr. Patrick, that on this video you'll see, it's a new
one, that the more you do it, the more benefits can be calculated and proven for the whole
heart system and the veins and arteries and everything.
Saunas.
So don't just think about saunas as being a detoxification thing, but also for a really
good systemic workout for your body.
Your body almost thinks like it's exercising.
I don't exercise all that much.
I rebound every day and walk and do a few weights, but I'm pretty limited.
And I'm in good shape here with working on 76, 77, I don't even know anymore, years
in this body.
So, I think they're good.
I've used it every day for probably 10 years.
You can see a picture of it here.
I'll show you a picture.
So it's a personal one.
You can see here if you're on video that you sit in it, your head is out.
And I've never used those little slots, I don't read, but you can do that if you
want.
And it's cool.
And boy, you'll sweat.
So you get far-infrared health.
And I think you could do this every day.
I'm going to do it as long as I'm here.
And it's just good for you.
You can tell.
You can feel it.
Just the way the body just likes to sweat.
Just does.
The Relaxed Far-Infrared Sauna.
The only way to get this value and the sale price that we offer is to email me.
And that's patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
Patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
Just email me and I'll hook you up for the best price regardless of where you live.
And tell me where you live when you email me and I'll give you the best price we can.
And you're not going to get a better price anywhere.
Guaranteed.
No way.
No way, Jose.
Just not going to.
So don't fall for look-alikes, too.
You'll see saunas on Amazon and other places that look just like this and they sell them
for $700 or $800.
Ours is $1,295 delivered.
And they're not the same thing.
They're just, who knows what's in there.
These are saunas that have won several awards for their technique, their technology.
And they're made in a medical university in Taiwan.
And as long as China doesn't take them over, I guess we'll keep having them.
I don't even want to think about that one.
So just email me and we'll get it done.
Patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
From the hill country in Texas, this is OneRadioNetwork.com.
Talking with Dr. Ray Peat.
He's a PhD.
He's been at this for a very, very long time.
It's drPeat.com.
And you can do his newsletter, which is, I'm sorry, rayPeat.com.
Sorry, rayPeat.com.
His newsletter is Ray Peat's Newsletter, plural, at gmail.com.
And you can sign up for that.
Dr. Peat, thanks for coming on the show each month.
Here's an email for you.
My wife is in her 60s and she's recovering from Lyme disease and has chronic upper body
pain, constant sore muscles.
Her biceps are very weak and her hand and foot tendons continue to be super tight and
injure very easily.
I'm wondering what you can give us some ideas on what she could do.
So she's recovering from Lyme and lots of upper body pain.
Oh, all of the anti-inflammatory things, especially the antihistamines, anti-serotonin drugs,
the vitamin D as a general anti-inflammatory, pro-energy, progesterone and thyroid to get
your energy back up and working.
So she has to get her metabolism and everything back up and working after that.
Yeah, yeah.
There's a constant opposition between the availability of energy as ATP derived from
glucose and all of the anti-inflammatory constructive functions.
So it's energy versus inflammation.
Energy versus inflammation.
Yeah.
That drug for the antihistamine, that could be possibly tried to do that?
What was the name of that one you mentioned?
The antihistamine medicine?
Yeah.
If I remember to take it, I would stop having the allergic voice symptoms.
After an episode of allergy, I have to remember to take my ciprohepidine.
Ciprohepidine, yeah, that's the one.
So do you take that sometimes?
You can tell when you don't take it?
Oh, sure.
The irritation, the tendency to cough, is just tremendous without it.
But it's the surest way to stop background inflammation.
Background inflammation.
Ciprohepidine.
I think when I bought it for the antihistamine thing I was getting, histamine, two years
ago, I think I got it on the Mexican or Canadian pharmacy or something.
If I remember, you could get that online.
And you said it was safe, right?
It was just little bitty pills?
Yeah.
For a while, you couldn't get it from Mexico because it was liquid.
But sometimes you get it through and it's always available as a four milligram tablet.
Yeah, it's a little bitty thing, yeah.
I took it for a little bit.
It seemed to help me.
I was sneezing a lot.
Could you please ask Dr. Peat on strategies to lower the adrenal response to T3?
Lower the adrenal response to T3.
Oh, if you keep your blood sugar steady, there's no problem.
You'll have an adequate response, but not too much.
What should the blood sugar do three or four hours after eating, either carbs or protein?
Is there a kind of a metric that you go by to see if everything is functioning properly?
Not for everyone.
It can be fine at 80 milligrams per cent, or it's often fine for a while at 150 milligrams
per cent, right after eating.
A percent increase, right?
No, an absolute number of 150.
Oh, I see.
That's an absolute number.
And then it should just normally go back to your main line, whatever that is, 70, 80,
90.
Yeah.
Okay.
Here's Richard.
He said he's a senior with blood sugar 200.
Wow.
Eat good food, bike and stay active.
I'm trying your milk on orange juice regimen, but sugar is still high.
What can I do?
He wants to know what he can get this down to naturally.
Would leaving a red light in the bedroom overnight help reduce inflammation and cortisol?
So he's got two questions.
So blood sugar is pretty high, 200, right?
That's more higher than we want, right?
Yeah.
And thyroid is often the problem.
Low thyroid.
Yeah.
You should be able to get below 100 if you have residual good functioning thyroid.
Thyroid, right.
So he should check his thyroid and your best number, if I recall, the TSH wants to be .5
or below, correct?
Yes.
Preferably well below that.
Even well below.
I mean as low as you can.
Like almost zero if you've got a TSH of almost zero.
Yeah, I haven't found any satisfying idea of an essential function of TSH as far as
I can tell it's all pro-inflammatory.
It's pro-inflammatory.
Wow.
That's crazy.
So his second question, he wants to know if leaving a red light in the bedroom overnight
can reduce inflammation and cortisol.
Yeah.
Does it?
It doesn't always work, but very often it's helpful.
But often it will work, just reducing cortisol just to red light.
Mm-hmm.
Here's Harish.
Hypothetically, what would Dr. Peat do for, I don't know, I'm going to have to spell this,
Dr. Peat.
CARCINOID syndrome.
Is that familiar?
Carcinoid syndrome.
Say it again.
CARCINOID syndrome.
Carcinoid syndrome.
Carcinoid?
Yeah, carcinoid.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's a small, not too dangerous tumor that produces serotonin.
It can be very dangerous.
It can make a person completely non-functional, can cause tumors in places that destroy your
functions.
But generally, it's a syndrome of very high serotonin action.
And the whole pattern leading to serotonin excess should be taken care of.
More thyroid, more anti-estrogen consideration, progesterone and so on.
We ran a video of a doctor this morning.
He was addressing the idea that people think that, pretty interesting video, that people
think that meat putrefies in your gut, in your colon and all that.
And he showed all kinds of things and people in colostomy bags.
And he said, "That's not the case."
And he talked to a lady, you know, these colostomy bags they put on people, sometimes, who has
worked for thousands, these bags, filled them and emptied them and everything.
And she said she found, not meat in there, but she found things like nuts and corn and
oats in these colostomy bags.
What's that?
I didn't get the last phrase you said.
Oh, you know colostomy bags they put on people sometimes, right, in their intestines.
I guess it's in their small, I don't know, or even large.
But she found nuts and corn that never digested, and some oats as well, oftentimes, in these
bags, these masti bags, or whatever they're called.
How do you explain that?
Nuts are hard, I guess, to digest, huh?
Dr. Peat, this is Rich.
Do you have any solutions for heavy metal toxicities or glyphosate toxicity?
Glyphosate or heavy metals?
Yeah, I think Stephanie Seneff has written a lot about the glyphosate, but it's mostly
to be cautious.
She hasn't proved exactly what's going on, but I think it's an analogous process to endotoxin
poisoning, and estrogen, glyphosate is a watering disruptor of the anti-estrogen, anti-endotoxin
processes.
She's often talked about, too, how it really tangles up the whole sulfur cycle as well,
which inhibits people to get toxins out of the body.
Interesting.
And they've done some blood tests on lots of people, even people who eat organically,
and they seem, these glyphosates are getting around, aren't they?
I mean, it seems like they're everywhere.
Okay, here's somebody that's taking levothyroxine.
Do you know that one, Dr. Peat?
Levothyroxine, and was diagnosed with Hashimoto's.
I do some experimentation at times to try to help myself.
I began taking a product for thyroid support, and he was taking this thyroid support with
a blend of hydroxycortisol, acetate, and Guglielusterone extract, iodine, and selenium, and the results
of taking this supplement have been surprising.
I've been able to cut my levothyroxine dosage in half.
My heart palpitations have significantly diminished.
No more loose stools.
Could you possibly tell me what could be going on?
The MDs don't have a clue.
Wow.
Yeah, well, MDs invented the problem many years ago.
Levothyroxine is simply not the thyroid hormone.
It's a drug alternative that doctors unthinkingly are kind of forced to prescribe.
They can actually lose their license if they question the appropriateness of levothyroxine
or even the propriety of questioning the proper level of TSH.
Levothyroxine is pretty good at lowering TSH, but it doesn't necessarily have all of the
thyroid or thyroid defects.
So you can lower your TSH with it and get some benefit, but just lowering the TSH might
not be enough to get the benefits you actually need.
The ability to convert the T4 levothyroxine to convert it into the active T3 as well as
to lower the TSH.
So she might be on the right track with lowering her dosage of the levothyroxine.
Yeah, you really should look at every time you have a test, you should check to see that
your TSH is appropriate for the level of levothyroxine.
What would be the best healing protocol procedure for a person who is a 47-year-old recovering
alcoholic, popaholic, smoker with a colostomy bag, wow, since 24, now in a hospital with
heart and liver issues.
Wow, they've got a lot going on here.
Anything they could do for somebody in a hospital with that going on?
For what purpose?
Just as recovering alcoholic and drinking a lot of sugar and smoking and want to get
some advice to help this person.
It's a tough one, huh?
It could be that they would run into good advice in the hospital.
Dr. Peat, a few months ago my dog killed a squirrel and I think it made him sick.
The next three days he wouldn't eat and was having thick black sludge, diarrhea.
He also insisted on staying outside in 20 Fahrenheit weather where he could hide in
a bush.
Since then he mostly has diarrhea.
Once or twice a week he won't eat the whole day.
Do you have any idea what could be wrong?
What could I do?
Boy, that squirrel must have been nasty, huh?
What does he think, constant?
The dog killed a squirrel and that's when all this started.
I don't know how that would work but I should check if he had a change in bowel function.
He might have been exposed to microbes.
Yeah, that's what it sounds like.
He says that the dog had this diarrhea once or twice a week and he wouldn't eat for a
while.
So this squirrel was full of something, right?
That he just was not happy.
Yeah, I'm not a vet but to this person I would say put him on raw meat.
I think that's your best choice for carnivore dogs, I think.
I think that's the best way to go.
He's probably going to find his way out of that one.
Here's an email.
Can thyroid hormone help with a metastasized cancer?
Thyroid hormone help with a metastasized cancer?
Yeah, it sometimes brings back your balance between estrogens and anti-inflammatory.
Keeping in mind all of the anti-inflammatory things is important.
I've been looking more at oxalates, writes Brenda, and she wants to know if milk or butter
helps with lowering the oxalate intake with potatoes and black tea.
Oxalates?
No, they can contribute to kidney stones.
Yes.
She's asking if the milk and the black tea or the green tea or the butter with the potatoes
helps to diminish how many oxalates we ingest is what her question is.
No, I don't think it has much effect.
You're going to get them either way, huh?
Do you think the oxalates in a baked potato are worth avoiding baked potatoes?
No, I think it takes a diet fairly high and consistent to see any effects.
So you'd have to eat a whole bunch of them to have some oxalate issues, you say?
Yes, the sort of astringent leaves and potatoes are in total, I think, worth it.
I think one of the highest ones in oxalates, I used to know, chard.
Chard's really high, and spinach, right?
Oh, yeah, but occasional.
Chard is so tasty.
It's pretty good, yeah.
What's the minimum milligrams of calcium needed to prevent osteoporosis in a sedentary
people in their 70s and 80s?
So we have a 70 or 80-year-old, and the minimum milligrams of calcium to prevent osteoporosis.
It depends on the balance between vitamin D, parathyroid hormone, calcium, and magnesium.
But really, it should be at least a thousand milligrams.
Generally about a thousand, and that's pretty easy to get with food, right?
Yeah, milk and cheese and some vegetables.
Here somebody said they're confused about using baking soda for cancer.
I heard Dr. Peat mention in one of your shows that it would take one and a half or 40 grams
a day, but I'm not sure how to take it.
There are many suggestions on the net using maple syrup, too.
It's not clear what's the best way to take baking soda.
Yeah, seeing what you need really had some effects, but his silly talk about that showing
that cancer was a fungus just didn't make sense.
But in fact, there's a very powerful, very widespread effect of both carbon dioxide and
baking soda on suppressing cancer development.
Carbon dioxide, too.
Have you used the carbon dioxide that I sent you, that little thing that you could put
around your body?
I'm going to try it.
Yeah, sitting in a bathtub with the drain taped up or just in a big plastic bag.
Sure.
Yeah, I haven't got mine yet.
I've been looking at it, and it appears, Doc, that you can buy a tank that's aluminum, so
it's not so heavy to carry after you fill that baby up.
You had suggested to get a, did you tell me a 2K or 20K, 10K?
I think the ones I use are only 10 kilograms.
10 kilograms.
And would that last for a while if you fill that baby up with CO2?
Yeah, just an occasional bathtub.
I forget how many you get, but something like seven or eight.
Oh, that'd be good, yeah, and then get it filled up again.
So I'm going to try.
Have you done that recently?
Have you done it, used a carbon dioxide bathtub thing?
Yeah, I've done it twice in the last two days.
Oh, been doing it more often.
I'm going to try it.
I'll let you know.
Well, Dr. Peat, we got through all the emails.
Thanks for coming on the show.
You take care of yourself.
Drink your milk, orange juice, and you can do raypeat.com and look at his website.
Okay.
Thanks, Doc.
You take care, okay?
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
Bye-bye.
Dr. Ray Peat, OneRadioNetwork.com.
What a nice man, huh?
Yep.
Yeah, I've been looking at that, and you can actually find a tank, aluminum.
I'm going to get a 10K tank, and they have a place.
I sent Dr. Peat.
I'll send you one, too.
I think it was like 50 bucks, and you get this.
It's like a body bag thing, and you put it up to here, and you just put the CO2 in there,
and then, and this hangs out in CO2, and it's really good for you.
So we're going to do that.
I'll let you know.
And then we're always experimenting with stuff.
We're going to have a fun show tomorrow.
We have two people.
Brandon Smith, and he's been looking into an organization.
You're going to love this one.
This one is run by the Rothschilds.
So you know this is going to be good.
The Rothschilds, it's called Inclusive Capitalism.
These are the people, and also a lot of the bankers and all the boys are in on this inclusive capitalism,
and they are the ones that do the legwork for Klaus Schwab.
They're the think tank.
The Klaus Schwab people, right, in the World Economic Forum, the crazies,
and then the inclusive capitalism people, they're the ones out there working with all,
you know, paying off senators.
It's crazy.
We're going to play a video, and this is what they have in trying to push on us next.
So this is fun.
That'll be tomorrow, and then tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock central,
Moses West, he's out of San Antonio and Austin, and he's building machines,
and I don't know how much they cost or anything.
We'll find it all out tomorrow, but I've seen them, the videos.
It's amazing, and they're just taking water out of the air.
There's humidity.
There's water everywhere, and I've seen it.
He's got a huge machine, pretty big one, like two refrigerators big,
and it just dumps water out like a faucet like this, and it just keeps going.
It just keeps going.
I want one.
It's just distilled water.
So we're going to talk to him.
He created this thing, and then I'm going to be here, Adam Bergstrom, on Wednesday,
Adam 2.0, he's on the third Wednesday, and then we have somebody else on Wednesday as well.
Oh, Matthew Errett, who's looking into what China and Russia are up to,
and they're doing more than playing cards tonight together, baby.
So we may need to learn Mandarin or Russian if things keep going the way they are.
So I love you all very much.
I will see you tomorrow, and we'll talk about making water in your backyard,
and take care.
Love you.
Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com.
From the Hill Country in Texas, this is OneRadioNetwork.com.
(jazz music)
[BLANK_AUDIO]